README.md, before:

# Cloudflare DDNS Service :cloud: :arrows_counterclockwise:
[![Github Source](https://img.shields.io/badge/source-github-orange)](https://github.com/realshaunoneill/cloudflare-ddns)
[![Docker Image Size](https://img.shields.io/docker/image-size/realshaunoneill/cloudflare-ddns/latest)](https://hub.docker.com/r/realshaunoneill/cloudflare-ddns)
[![DockerHub Pulls](https://img.shields.io/docker/pulls/realshaunoneill/cloudflare-ddns)](https://hub.docker.com/r/realshaunoneill/cloudflare-ddns 'DockerHub pulls')

A Node.js-based Dynamic DNS (DDNS) service using Cloudflare as the DNS provider. This service automatically updates the IP address of a chosen domain with the current IP address of the machine running the service.

## Features :sparkles:
- Automatic IP address update with Cloudflare
- Configurable interval (using cron) for IP address checks and updates
- Simple setup and configuration
- The Docker image is small and efficient.
- Wildcard domains (*.example.org) are also supported.
- Supports all platforms.

## Prerequisites :clipboard:
To use this service, you need to have either Node.js or Docker installed on your machine.
- A Cloudflare account with a domain name already set up and configured on Cloudflare.
- A Cloudflare API key with the following permissions:
  - Zone:Zone:Read
  - Zone:DNS:Edit


## Installation :computer:
There are two ways to run this service: using Docker or Node.js. The Docker image is recommended for most users, but if you want to run the service on a machine that doesn't have Docker installed, you can use Node.js instead.
### Using Docker :whale:
1. Create a new file called docker-compose.yml and copy the following contents into it:

   ```yaml
   version: "3.8"
   services:
     cloudflare-ddns:
       image: realshaunoneill/cloudflare-ddns:latest
       container_name: cloudflare-ddns
       restart: unless-stopped
       environment:
         - CLOUDFLARE_API_KEY=your-api-key
         - DNS_URL=your-domain-name
         - PROXIED=false
         - CRON_SCHEDULE=* * * * *
         - WEBHOOK_URL=https://your-webhook-url
         - WEBHOOK_METHOD=POST
   ```
2. Modify the environment variables to your liking. See Configuration for more information.
3. Run the service:

   ```shell
   docker-compose up -d
   ```
### Using Node.js :computer:
1. Clone this repository to your local machine:

   ```shell
   git clone https://github.com/your-username/your-repo.git
   ```
2. Install the dependencies:

   ```shell
   npm install
   ```
3. Copy the .env.example file to .env and modify the values to your liking. See Configuration for more information.
The .env file is used to store your Cloudflare API key and other configuration options. It is ignored by Git, so you don't have to worry about accidentally committing your API key to the repository. You can copy the .env.example file to .env using the following command:

   ```shell
   cp .env.example .env
   ```
4. Run the service:

   ```shell
   npm start
   ```
5. (Optional) If you want to run the service in the background, you can use a process manager like [PM2](https://pm2.keymetrics.io/):

   ```shell
   npm install pm2 -g
   pm2 start index.js --name cloudflare-ddns
   ```

## Configuration :wrench:
You can modify the following configuration settings in the .env file:

- CLOUDFLARE_API_KEY: Your Cloudflare API key or access token.
- DNS_URL: The subdomain to update with the current IP address (can be a wildcard).
- PROXIED: Whether or not to proxy the DNS record through Cloudflare.
- CRON_SCHEDULE: The interval at which to check for IP address changes (using cron syntax).
- WEBHOOK_URL: The URL to send a webhook to when the IP address changes.
- WEBHOOK_METHOD: The HTTP method to use when sending the webhook (GET or POST).

## Contributing :handshake:
Contributions are welcome! If you have any ideas, suggestions, or bug reports, please open an issue or submit a pull request.

## License :page_facing_up:
This project is licensed under the MIT License.

Commit message:

Use cloudflare to get the public IP (#2)

README.md, after:

# Cloudflare DDNS Service :cloud: :arrows_counterclockwise:
[![Github Source](https://img.shields.io/badge/source-github-orange)](https://github.com/realshaunoneill/cloudflare-ddns)
[![Docker Image Size](https://img.shields.io/docker/image-size/realshaunoneill/cloudflare-ddns/latest)](https://hub.docker.com/r/realshaunoneill/cloudflare-ddns)
[![DockerHub Pulls](https://img.shields.io/docker/pulls/realshaunoneill/cloudflare-ddns)](https://hub.docker.com/r/realshaunoneill/cloudflare-ddns 'DockerHub pulls')

A Node.js-based Dynamic DNS (DDNS) service using Cloudflare as the DNS provider. This service automatically updates the IP address of a chosen domain with the current IP address of the machine running the service.

## Features :sparkles:
- Automatic IP address update with Cloudflare
- Configurable interval (using cron) for IP address checks and updates
- Simple setup and configuration
- The Docker image is small and efficient.
- Wildcard domains (*.example.org) are also supported.
- Supports all platforms.
- This service pulls the IP address from the [Cloudflare API](https://one.one.one.one/cdn-cgi/trace) instead of using a third-party service.

## Prerequisites :clipboard:
To use this service, you need to have either Node.js or Docker installed on your machine.
- A Cloudflare account with a domain name already set up and configured on Cloudflare.
- A Cloudflare API key with the following permissions:
  - Zone:Zone:Read
  - Zone:DNS:Edit


## Installation :computer:
There are two ways to run this service: using Docker or Node.js. The Docker image is recommended for most users, but if you want to run the service on a machine that doesn't have Docker installed, you can use Node.js instead.
### Using Docker :whale:
1. Create a new file called docker-compose.yml and copy the following contents into it:

   ```yaml
   version: "3.8"
   services:
     cloudflare-ddns:
       image: realshaunoneill/cloudflare-ddns:latest
       container_name: cloudflare-ddns
       restart: unless-stopped
       environment:
         - CLOUDFLARE_API_KEY=your-api-key
         - DNS_URL=your-domain-name
         - PROXIED=false
         - CRON_SCHEDULE=* * * * *
         - WEBHOOK_URL=https://your-webhook-url
         - WEBHOOK_METHOD=POST
   ```
2. Modify the environment variables to your liking. See Configuration for more information.
3. Run the service:

   ```shell
   docker-compose up -d
   ```
### Using Node.js :computer:
1. Clone this repository to your local machine:

   ```shell
   git clone https://github.com/your-username/your-repo.git
   ```
2. Install the dependencies:

   ```shell
   npm install
   ```
3. Copy the .env.example file to .env and modify the values to your liking. See Configuration for more information.
The .env file is used to store your Cloudflare API key and other configuration options. It is ignored by Git, so you don't have to worry about accidentally committing your API key to the repository. You can copy the .env.example file to .env using the following command:

   ```shell
   cp .env.example .env
   ```
4. Run the service:

   ```shell
   npm start
   ```
5. (Optional) If you want to run the service in the background, you can use a process manager like [PM2](https://pm2.keymetrics.io/):

   ```shell
   npm install pm2 -g
   pm2 start index.js --name cloudflare-ddns
   ```

## Configuration :wrench:
You can modify the following configuration settings in the .env file:

- CLOUDFLARE_API_KEY: Your Cloudflare API key or access token.
- DNS_URL: The subdomain to update with the current IP address (can be a wildcard).
- PROXIED: Whether or not to proxy the DNS record through Cloudflare.
- CRON_SCHEDULE: The interval at which to check for IP address changes (using cron syntax).
- WEBHOOK_URL: The URL to send a webhook to when the IP address changes.
- WEBHOOK_METHOD: The HTTP method to use when sending the webhook (GET or POST).

## Contributing :handshake:
Contributions are welcome! If you have any ideas, suggestions, or bug reports, please open an issue or submit a pull request.

## License :page_facing_up:
This project is licensed under the MIT License.
